ERC721 tokens are exactly that, non-fungible tokens on Ethereum. Not only is crypto kitties proof of concept for smart contracts, its proof of concept for non-fungible collectibles on blockchain.

Think Collectible card games like Magic the Gathering, the entire ruleset of Magic could be uploaded to blockchain, and cards issued as ERC721 tokens. Very interesting possibilities here and I'm very excited about non-fungibles on blockchain.

Now non-fingibles are very different to fungibles when it comes to investing. Some major drawbacks. Its similar with Antiques. The liquidity for most non-fungible collectibles is very very low. There is not enough demand unless the object is Rare. The genius of Crypto kitties was giving everyone the chance to get rare kitties from a collection of non-rare kitties. This brought a demand for non-rare kitties. Even though these kitties are then divided into Tranches based on attributes (how early Gen, Rare Cattributes, Breed Speed). Now the market views all of these cats based on their utility, and valued in groups. IE, What are the chances this cat will return me a rare cat in a short time frame? Gen 2 Cats with no rare attributes and Snappy for example would all go in roughly the same price bracket.

Now there was some major deviation in this due to some exciting factors. People didnt understand how to search for kitties for quite a while, so they were overpaying much of the time. A bad UI, lack of player guides, and people feeling like they didnt have time to research before buying (FOMO) lead to this sporadic market where the tranches didnt matter if people couldnt search the different categories.

Very rare cats then are sought after for their rare properties in themselves, and possible future potential, although many people buying the rarest of cats have no intention of ever breeding them. It would drop the value too much. Ive been reading around this Sub and others, and it seems to me, most people here have no experience with non-fungible collectibles. Some have experience in traditional financial markets, most don't even have that. The number of people claiming outright false or stupid stuff relating to this topic is exciting a shit to me because Im gonna make a ton of money from these people who will start playing this digital collectibles gold rush thats coming up, without any experience with this kind of thing.

Its a whole different beast and different principals apply than a regular financial market. As I said, think Antiques. people buy Antiques all the time to find out the market actually only thinks they are worth 20% what you paid. But you can also find yourself in a situation where you only paid 20% of what the market thinks its worth. And most antiques can take years to sell. There just isnt an active market. Throw a rare and well timed piece up for auction and you could have Thoasands of bidders on an online auction on a given day.

TLDR; Crypto Kitties are actually a legitimate investment, even if only the top 0.01% of Cats should actually be considered investments. The guy who bought the Founder Kitty for example, Im sure he made a good investment. $117k be damned. That cat is actually worth more and will remain so. Crypto Kitties has entered the collective unconscious and is now part of blockchain history. 99.9% of crypto kitties will go down in value over time. This is true too.